= Postfix XFORWARD Extension for Net::SMTP

The postfix-xforward extension adds methods to Ruby's Net::SMTP library to support the
{XFORWARD}[http://www.postfix.org/XFORWARD_README.html] SMTP extension, as defined and
supported by the {Postfix MTA}[http://www.postfix.org/].

Code that currently uses
{Net::SMTP}[http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/net/smtp/rdoc/index.html] as follows:

  require 'net/smtp'
  to   = 'some@address.tld'
  from = 'other@domain.tld'
  msg  = <<EMAIL
  To: #{to}
  From: #{from}
  Subject: Test Message
  
  This is a test message.
  EMAIL
  
  Net::SMTP.start('mail.localdomain', 25, 'my-hostname') do |smtp|
    smtp.send_message(msg, from, to)
  end

... can now use it this way in order to include XFORWARD attributes:

  require 'postfix-xforward'
  attr = { 'NAME' => 'actual.domain.tld', 'ADDR' => '123.234.012.123' }
  to   = 'some@address.tld'
  from = 'other@domain.tld'
  msg  = <<EMAIL
  To: #{to}
  From: #{from}
  Subject: Test Message

  This is a test message.
  EMAIL

  Net::SMTP.start('mail.localdomain', 25, 'my-hostname', nil, nil, nil, attr) do |smtp|
    smtp.send_message(msg, from, to)
  end

== Details

The XFORWARD extension, supported by the Postfix MTA is very simple really. It allows the
SMTP client to include various attributes before the MAIL TO command. These attributes
tell the server where the email message *really* came from.

This is almost always used on special, private instances of an SMTP server where only
trusted (usually local) clients can connect. This is usually used in configurations such
as the following:

  client -> smtp-server-1 -> filter-script -> smtp-server-2 -> nexthop

In these setups, smtp-server-1 and 2 both run under the same Postfix instance in order
to provide {after-queue content filtering}[http://www.postfix.org/FILTER_README.html].
The smtp-server-1 instance has access to the actual information about the client that
is sending the message. It can pass this on, if configured correctly to an external
filter-script.

This library makes it possible, using Net::SMTP to write filter-script in Ruby and to
be able to pass original client information on when speaking SMTP to smtp-server-2
using XFORWARD.

This has just been thrown together so any comments, fixes, improvemnts, or other contributions
are appreciated.

== Authors and Credits

Authors:: Kendall Gifford

